SIP-30: Entropy Source Identifiers (#156)
MetaMask/SIPs: SIPS/sip-30.md

created: 2024-12-17
---

## Abstract

This SIP proposes additions to entropy retrieval APIs that allows snaps to request entropy from a specific source.

## Motivation

Interoperability snaps and account management snaps use the methods `snap_getEntropy`, `snap_getBip44Entropy`, `snap_getBip32Entropy`, and `snap_getBip32PublicKey` to generate addresses and other key material.

These methods assume the client contains a single entropy source (the user's primary keyring mnemonic). The proposed API changes will allow snaps to request entropy from a specific source such as a secondary mnemonic. A new method `snap_listAvailableEntropySources` will be added to allow snaps to request a list of available entropy sources.

## Specification

> Formal specifications are written in TypeScript.

### Language

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED",
"NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" written in uppercase in this document are to be interpreted as described in
[RFC 2119](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt)

### Snap Manifest

A new set permission is added to the snap manifest:

```json
{
  "initialPermissions": {

>     "snap_listAvailableEntropySources": {}

Author: That makes sense - I was going by (from [here](https://docs.metamask.io/snaps/reference/snaps-api/))

> Snaps can communicate with and modify the functionality of MetaMask using the [Snaps API](https://docs.metamask.io/snaps/learn/about-snaps/apis/#snaps-api). To call each method (except the [interactive UI methods](https://docs.metamask.io/snaps/reference/snaps-api/#interactive-ui-methods)), you must first [request permission](https://docs.metamask.io/snaps/how-to/request-permissions/) in the Snap manifest file.

But I agree there's no need to create a separate permission, given that (excluding backward compatibility) you need one thing to do the other. I'm not quite sure how to specify that though, given that (as far as I can tell) a snap has to request `snap_getEntropy`, `snap_getBip44Entropy` and so on. I was thinking something like

> A snap which is endowed with the permission `snap_getEntropy`, `snap_getBip44Entropy` or `snap_getBip32Entropy` may call the `snap_listAvailableEntropySources` method.

>     "snap_listAvailableEntropySources": {}

Reviewer: Yeah, specifying it in the SIP like that makes sense to me!

  }
}
```

### Common Types
```typescript
type Slip10Node = {
  depth: number;
  parentFingerprint: number;
  index: number;
  privateKey: string;
  publicKey: string;
  chainCode: string;
  curve: "ed25519" | "secp256k1";
};

export type BIP44Node = {
  coin_type: number;
  depth: number;
  privateKey: string;
  publicKey: string;
  chainCode: string;
  path: string[];
};

> interface EntropySource {

Reviewer: Should we flag to the Snap which one is the primary one?

Author: I have added a simple boolean flag here

  name: string;
  id: string;
  type: "mnemonic";
}
```

### Scope

This SIP applies to snaps that implement the [Keyring API][keyring-api] and any others which use the `snap_getEntropy`, `snap_getBip44Entropy`, `snap_getBip32Entropy`, and `snap_getBip32PublicKey` methods.

### Snap Manifest

No changes are required to the snap manifest.

> ### Client wallet implementation

Reviewer: "Client wallet" can probably just be "client" in this entire section

> #### Handling Entropy Requests

Author: Fixed, thanks!

If a snap requests a list of available entropy sources, and it has the permission to do so, the wallet MUST return a list of `EntropySource` objects.

If a snap requests entropy and includes the `source` parameter for an entropy source of type `mnemonic`, the wallet MUST return entropy corresponding to that source, if it exists.

If the source does not exist, the wallet MUST respond with an error.

> If the request does not include the `source` parameter, the wallet MUST return entropy from the default source.

Reviewer: Maybe worth writing a section about the **primary** entropy source and how not passing the option will always fall back to that.

Author: Thanks, I've split up Client Implementation and referred more explicitly to this - also used Primary everywhere

A client wallet MAY invoke the `keyring.createAccount` method with an `entropySource` parameter in the `options` object.

The `entropySource` parameter MUST be a string which uniquely identifies the entropy source to use. It is not guaranteed to be the same string visible to any other snap, but should always refer to the same source in the context of interactions between the snap and the client wallet.

#### Snap implementation

> If a snap is asked to create an account via `keyring.createAccount`, and the `entropySource` parameter is provided, and the snap requires entropy to create an account,the snap SHOULD request the entropy from the specified source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a snap is asked to create an account via `keyring.createAccount`, and the `entropySource` parameter is provided, and the snap requires entropy to create an account, the snap SHOULD request the entropy from the specified source.
```

### New RPC Methods

> #### `snap_listAvailableEntropySources`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### `snap_listEntropySources`
```

Author: 👍

> The method returns an array of `EntropySource` objects, each representing an available entropy source. It is intended that the snap will display this list to the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The method returns an array of `EntropySource` objects, each representing an available entropy source. The Snap MAY choose to display this list to the user.
```

```typescript
const entropySources = await snap.request({
  method: "snap_listAvailableEntropySources",
});
// [
//   { name: "Phrase 1", id: "phrase-1" },
//   { name: "Phrase 2", id: "phrase-2" },
// ]
```

### Existing RPC Methods

#### `snap_getEntropy`

##### Parameters
An object containing:

> - `version` - The number 2. Version `2` is the first version that allows specifying a source ID.

Reviewer: We don't need to increment the versioning number since the `source` parameter is optional and nothing else needs to change for the entropy derivation (except the source)

- `source` (optional) - The ID of the entropy source to use. If not specified, the primary entropy source will be used.

#### Returns
The entropy as a hexadecimal string.

#### Example

```typescript
const entropy = await snap.request({
  method: "snap_getEntropy",
  params: {
    version: 1,
    salt: "my-salt",
    source: "1234-5678-9012-3456-7890",
  },
});
// '0x1234567890abcdef'
```

#### `snap_getBip32Entropy`

##### Parameters

- `path` - An array starting with `m` containing the BIP-32 derivation path of the key to retrieve.
- `curve` - The curve to use - `ed25519`, `ed25519Bip32` or `secp256k1`.

> - `source` (optional) - The ID of the entropy source to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `source` (optional) - The ID of the entropy source to use. If not specified, the primary entropy source will be used.
```

- `curve`: The curve to use - `secp256k1` or `ed25519`.

##### Returns

A `Slip10Node` object representing the BIP-32 HD tree node and containing its corresponding key material.

##### Example

```typescript
const node = await snap.request({
  method: "snap_getBip32Entropy",
  params: {
    path: ["m", "44", "0", "0", "0"],
    source: "1234-5678-9012-3456-7890",
    curve: "secp256k1",
  },
});
// {
//   depth: 5,
//   parentFingerprint: 1234567890,
//   index: 0,
//   privateKey: '0x1234567890abcdef',
//   publicKey: '0x1234567890abcdef',
//   chainCode: '0x1234567890abcdef',
//   curve: 'secp256k1',
// }
```

> #### `snap_getBip32PublicKeyFromSource`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### `snap_getBip32PublicKey`
```

Author: Thanks, changed

##### Parameters

- `path` An array starting with `m` containing the BIP-32 derivation path of the key to retrieve.
- `curve` - The curve to use - `ed25519` or `ed25519Bip32`, `secp256k1`.
- `compressed` (optional) - Whether to return the public key in compressed format. (defaults to `false`)

> - `source` (optional) - The ID of the entropy source to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `source` (optional) - The ID of the entropy source to use. If not specified, the primary entropy source will be used.
```

### Snap Implementation

If a snap is asked to create an account via `keyring.createAccount`, and the `entropySource` parameter is provided, and the snap requires entropy to create an account, the snap SHOULD request the entropy from the specified source.

### New RPC Methods

#### `snap_listEntropySources`

The method returns an array of `EntropySource` objects, each representing an available entropy source (including the primary source). The Snap MAY choose to display this list to the user.

```typescript
const entropySources = await snap.request({
  method: "snap_listEntropySources",
});
// [
//   { name: "Phrase 1", id: "phrase-1" },
//   { name: "Phrase 2", id: "phrase-2" },
// ]
```

### Existing RPC Methods

#### `snap_getEntropy`

##### Parameters

An object containing:

- `version` - The number 1.
- `salt` (optional) - An arbitrary string to be used as a salt for the entropy. This can be used to generate different entropy for different purposes.
- `source` (optional) - The ID of the entropy source to use. If not specified, the primary entropy source will be used.

#### Returns

> 

Reviewer 2: There's one empty line too many here now 😅
```suggestion
```

## Specification

> Formal specifications are written in TypeScript.

### Language

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED",
"NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" written in uppercase in this document are to be interpreted as described in
[RFC 2119](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt)

### Snap Manifest

A new set permission is added to the snap manifest:

```json
{
  "initialPermissions": {
    "snap_listEntropySources": {}
  }
}
```

### Common Types

```typescript
type Slip10Node = {
  depth: number;
  parentFingerprint: number;
  index: number;
  privateKey: string;
  publicKey: string;
  chainCode: string;
  curve: "ed25519" | "secp256k1";
};

export type BIP44Node = {
  coin_type: number;
  depth: number;
  privateKey: string;
  publicKey: string;
  chainCode: string;
  path: string[];
};

> interface EntropySource {

Reviewer 3: Maybe:

```suggestion
export type EntropySource = {
```

#### Handling Entropy Requests

If a snap requests entropy and includes the `source` parameter for an entropy source of type `mnemonic`, the wallet MUST return entropy corresponding to that source, if it exists.

If the source does not exist, the wallet MUST respond with an error.

If the request does not include the `source` parameter, the wallet MUST return entropy from the primary source.

#### Creating Accounts

A client  MAY invoke the `keyring.createAccount` method with an `entropySource` parameter in the `options` object.

The `entropySource` parameter MUST be a string which uniquely identifies the entropy source to use. It is not guaranteed to be the same string visible to any other snap, but should always refer to the same source in the context of interactions between the snap and the client.

### Snap Implementation

If a snap is asked to create an account via `keyring.createAccount`, and the `entropySource` parameter is provided, and the snap requires entropy to create an account, the snap SHOULD request the entropy from the specified source.

### New RPC Methods

#### `snap_listEntropySources`

> The method returns an array of `EntropySource` objects, each representing an available entropy source. The Snap MAY choose to display this list to the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The method returns an array of `EntropySource` objects, each representing an available entropy source (including the primary source). The Snap MAY choose to display this list to the user.
```

```typescript
const entropySources = await snap.request({
  method: "snap_listEntropySources",
});
// [
//   { name: "Phrase 1", id: "phrase-1" },
//   { name: "Phrase 2", id: "phrase-2" },
// ]
```

### Existing RPC Methods

#### `snap_getEntropy`

> ##### Parameters

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
##### Parameters

```

An object containing:

- `version` - The number 1
- `salt` (optional) - An arbitrary string to be used as a salt for the entropy. This can be used to generate different entropy for different purposes.

> - `source` (optional) - The ID of the entropy source to use. If not specified, the default entropy source will be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `source` (optional) - The ID of the entropy source to use. If not specified, the primary entropy source will be used.
```

> #### Returns

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Returns

```

The entropy as a hexadecimal string.

#### Example

```typescript
const entropy = await snap.request({
  method: "snap_getEntropy",
  params: {

>     version: 2,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    version: 1,
```

    salt: "my-salt",
    source: "1234-5678-9012-3456-7890",
  },
});
// '0x1234567890abcdef'
```

#### `snap_getBip32Entropy`

##### Parameters

- `path`: An array starting with `m` containing the BIP-32 derivation path of the key to retrieve.

> - `source`: The ID of the entropy source to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `source` (optional) - The ID of the entropy source to use. If not specified, the primary entropy source will be used.
```

> - `source`: The ID of the entropy source to use.

Reviewer: Can we standardize the format for these? E.g. mark as optional etc as done for `snap_getEntropy`

- `curve`: The curve to use - `secp256k1` or `ed25519`.

##### Returns

A `Slip10Node` object representing the BIP-32 HD tree node and containing its corresponding key material.

##### Example

```typescript
const node = await snap.request({
  method: "snap_getBip32Entropy",
  params: {
    path: ["m", "44", "0", "0", "0"],
    source: "1234-5678-9012-3456-7890",
    curve: "secp256k1",
  },
});
// {
//   depth: 5,
//   parentFingerprint: 1234567890,
//   index: 0,
//   privateKey: '0x1234567890abcdef',
//   publicKey: '0x1234567890abcdef',
//   chainCode: '0x1234567890abcdef',
//   curve: 'secp256k1',
// }
```

#### `snap_getBip32PublicKey`

##### Parameters

- `path`: An array starting with `m` containing the BIP-32 derivation path of the key to retrieve.
- `source`: The ID of the entropy source to use.

> - `curve`: The curve to use - `secp256k1` or `ed25519`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `curve`: The curve to use - `secp256k1`, `ed25519` or `ed25519Bip32`.
```

- `compressed`: Whether to return the public key in compressed format. (defaults to `false`)

##### Returns

The public key as a hexadecimal string.

##### Example

```typescript
const publicKey = await snap.request({
  method: "snap_getBip32PublicKey",
  params: {
    path: ["m", "44", "0", "0", "0"],
    source: "1234-5678-9012-3456-7890",
    curve: "secp256k1",
    compressed: true,
  },
});
// '0x1234567890abcdef'
```

#### `snap_getBip44Entropy`

> ##### Parameters

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
##### Parameters

```

An object containing:

- `coin_type`: The BIP-44 coin type value of the node.

> - `source` (optional) - The ID of the entropy source to use. If not specified, the default entropy source will be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `source` (optional) - The ID of the entropy source to use. If not specified, the primary entropy source will be used.
```

> ##### Returns

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
##### Returns

```
